# Semantic-artefact-review
The number of research products in the field of environmental sciences keeps growing steadily accounting for both the increasing number of monitoring campaigns and the type of research products available in the era of ICT-driven and computational-intensive research. 
To facilitate the findability, accessibility, interoperability and reusability of research products, standard schemas and models should be used to guarantee the integration and the reutilisation of such products and to minimise the dispersion, fragmentation and loss of scientific information. 
The interoperability of research products is enforced by means of semantic artefacts, i.e., machine-actionable formalisations of concepts enabling sharing and reuse by humans and machines. Semantic artefacts describe research products and their metadata unambiguously and allow the correct exchange and interpretation of the information. 
To satisfy the semantic interoperability in the multifaceted field of environmental sciences, many semantic artefacts have been created resulting in a complex landscape of resources that are often duplicated, overlapping in scope and meaning and sometimes not compliant with the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles. 
In this review, 17 semantic artefact catalogues were used to compile an extensive list of semantic artefacts used to describe and represent information and knowledge in the research field of environmental sciences. Overall, 540 semantic artefacts and their key associated information have been gathered and evaluated. 
The main objectives of the review were to i. examine the coverage in topics and in environmental domains of the existing semantic artefacts; ii. assess some key aspects that influence the findability, accessibility, interoperability and reusability of existing semantic artefacts; and iii. evaluate the sustainability of the semantic artefacts available across multiple catalogues. 
Such a review is pivotal to gather evidence on the state-of-art of semantic artefacts in environmental sciences, to highlight existing gaps and to suggest possible solutions in order to address the lack of semantic interoperability among those resources that are supposed to ensure it.
